hearX Group (hearX), an impact-driven scale-up with a mission to increase access to hearinghealthcare through smart digital solutions, has completed a multi-million-dollar funding round led by Bose Ventures, the United States venture capital group within Bose Corporation. HAVAÍC, who invests in and supports early-stage, high-growth African businesses, led the local funding round in South Africa, with co-investments from two other prominent institutional investors, Futuregrowth Asset Management and Sphere Holdings. Bose Ventures invests in, and collaborates with, start-ups focused on technologies to help people live and feel better. Recognizing the value that hearX and its suite of smart hearing technologies can bring to the world was a critical factor in Bose Ventures’ commitment toinvest at the end of 2019. Co-investors HAVAÍC contributed $1.3m to the round. Futuregrowth, a fixed-interest assetmanager backed by Old Mutual Investment Group in South Africa contributed $3mthrough its Futuregrowth Development Equity Fund (DEF), and Sphere Holdings, a highperforminginvestment holding company contributed $1m in this round, closing out theround in 2020.Supplying disruptive, innovative digital technologies that support audiologists is central tothe hearX global hearing care strategy. To expand its reach, the company is applying itsaudiological expertise to also offer a solution to a consumer market segment. This investment has boosted the hearX launch of its premium, direct-to-consumer hearingaid solution, in the United States called Lexie Hearing. Using smart technology, Lexie offersa comprehensive and affordable US developed hearing aid solution from as little as $39over 24 months without compromising on quality. Consumers can enjoy the convenienceof purchasing quality hearing aids online, program them from the comfort of their homes,and have access to hearing experts on-demand. The award-winning solution includes theworld’s first behavior-change financing model within the hearing space, with the LexieRewardsTM program, landing it the MTN App of the Year award at the end of 2020 for theBest Health Solution. Since launching in the United States, Lexie Hearing has collaboratedwith Walgreens, the second-largest pharmacy store chain in the country, to sell the LexieLumen hearing aids online across 38 States.Founded out of the University of Pretoria in South Africa, hearX started trading in 2016 withthe purpose of commercializing digital technologies to change the face of hearing care.hearX initially focused on clinical digital audiometers, later branching out into leadgeneration tools for audiologists and retailers. Its latest offering includes an end-to-endhearing care solution that allows role-players in the hearing aid industry to compete in thedirect-to-consumer and over-the-counter markets through the groundbreaking LexieHearing platform. hearX has, quite literally, grown at the speed of sound.Says Amrish Narrandes, Head of Unlisted Equity Transactions at Futuregrowth, “Weremain committed to our stance of backing entrepreneurs that are creating proudly SouthAfrican products, services and IP and taking it to the rest of the world, thus raising the SouthAfrican flag high. What we particularly liked about hearX is that it is disrupting thetraditional hearing healthcare industry by democratizing and decentralizing access tohearing care.”According to Memory Denalane, Director at Sphere Holdings, “Sphere is excited to haveinvested in hearX, a business poised for considerable growth and global impact with itsworld leading South African developed hearing technology, dynamic management teamand solid investor base.”In the last 4 years hearX has grown into a scale-up with global impact across 68 countriestouching over one and a half million lives and it boasts a client list that includes 23andmeand The World Health Organisation. hearX received further industry attention atTechCrunch in San Francisco, where it was invited to the Startup Alley, eventually winninga “Top Pick” award, as well as being noted by Forbes as “one to watch”. hearX has amassedan impressive list of dozens of awards across the world in its short lifespan, a testament tothe dynamic team behind the Group.When asked about working with Bose and how it will impact the hearX mission, CEO, NicKlopper said, “Support from Bose Ventures will enable hearX to more aggressively tacklehearing loss and advance hearing care solutions. Our team has worked tirelessly to touchover 1.5 million lives globally, so an investment of this magnitude in hearX is tremendouslyrewarding and motivating for us all.”More than 466 million people worldwide suffer from disabling hearing loss and access tohearing care is severely limited, especially in developing countries. Hearing testequipment is prohibitively expensive and hearing aids unaffordable to most. As such, thislatest round of funding helps support the hearX suite of technologies to lead the waytowards its vision of healthy hearing for everyone, everywhere. BECOME A MEMBER   |   MEDIA & NEWS   |   DOWNLOADS Contact SAVCA +27 11 268 0041 info@savca.co.za Copyright © 2019 Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA) SAVCA Website Privacy Policy SAVCA Website Terms and Conditions