Metier, through its most recent Sustainable Capital Fund, has made a substantial investment into Energy Vision to grow the provision of reliable, clean-energy, cost-effective and environmentally friendly solutions to powering telecom equipment for mobile network operators and telecom tower companies. The partnering is centred around Energy Vision’s ambitions to increase its customer base and installed site portfolio, resulting in reduced reliance on carbon-based energy sources. Energy Vision was founded in 2014 by a team of experienced telecom and infrastructure professionals, with a vision to pioneer the provision of bespoke clean and cost-effective energy solutions for telecom towers across Africa. The management team have decades of successful telecom experience in Africa and are well placed to deliver reliable energy efficient uptime, having signed the first contract of its type with Airtel in Gabon in 2015, delivering in excess of 99.99% telecom tower uptime. Energy Vision has subsequently benefitted from substantial growth having secured a material contract in Nigeria and continues to pursue opportunities spanning the continent. Founded in 2003, Metier is an independent private equity fund manager with a proven track record spanning four decades. Metier’s Sustainable Capital practice has garnered significant traction since its inception in 2009. Building on the success of its predecessor Sustainable Capital Fund (the tenth pooled vehicle for the Metier team), Metier has to date received US$133 million in commitments to its second Sustainable Capital Fund (MSC II). MSC II will support renewable energy, energy efficiency, water and waste management investments in Sub-Saharan Africa. MSC II Principal Marc Immerman said: “We look forward to working with the Energy Vision team to grow their business and add value. We have been following the telecom energy service sector for some time and are delighted to be partnering this pioneer and leading firm in this sector that provides positive substantial economic and environmental impacts not only reducing diesel consumption by around 70% but also maximising the renewable energy components of the systems”. The CEO and founder of Energy Vision, Moshe Shushan said, “We are delighted to have Metier share our vision and goals, continuing our growth in the energy service sector, providing services to our customers’ full satisfaction, leveraging our vast experience in telecom operations, telecom integration and tower management”.Ends BECOME A MEMBER   |   MEDIA & NEWS   |   DOWNLOADS Contact SAVCA +27 11 268 0041 info@savca.co.za Copyright © 2019 Southern African Venture Capital and Private Equity Association (SAVCA) SAVCA Website Privacy Policy SAVCA Website Terms and Conditions